README.md, before:

<img src="https://github.com/PandoraArc/ColDi/blob/main/ColDi/ColDi_logo.png" width="150">

# ColDi
A fast way to measure bacterial colony diameter by imageJ


The python project provides a wrapper functions for analyzing bacterial colony diameter using pyimagej with a simple graphical user interface.

## Installation
ColDi can be run in pyimageJ environment. In order to install the environment, please fellow the link https://github.com/imagej/pyimage.
ColDi also require additional python library including pandas, numpy, matplotlib.


## Usage
The first step when using ColDi is to activate pyimageJ environment by using command 

```
conda activate pyimagej
```

then go to the ColDi directory and and run the main.py

```
cd ~/ColDi
python main.py
```
if everything can run perfectly, the graphical user interface like this should be shown up

<img src="https://github.com/PandoraArc/ColDi/blob/main/ColDi_userinterface.png" width="250">

All parameters are same as parameter found in imageJ program. When every parameter is added, you can analyze colony diameter by just clicking "Analyze" button
the result of your input will be save in save location as .csv and .xlsx file. The program also provide every picture along the process

## Example input and result

For example input image and result from ColDI can be found in folder Example

Commit message:

Add youtube link banner in README.md

README.md, after:

<img src="https://github.com/PandoraArc/ColDi/blob/main/ColDi/ColDi_logo.png" width="150">

# ColDi
A fast way to measure bacterial colony diameter by imageJ


The python project provides a wrapper functions for analyzing bacterial colony diameter using pyimagej with a simple graphical user interface.

## Installation
ColDi can be run in pyimageJ environment. In order to install the environment, please fellow the link https://github.com/imagej/pyimage.
ColDi also require additional python library including pandas, numpy, matplotlib.


## Usage
The first step when using ColDi is to activate pyimageJ environment by using command 

```
conda activate pyimagej
```

then go to the ColDi directory and and run the main.py

```
cd ~/ColDi
python main.py
```
if everything can run perfectly, the graphical user interface like this should be shown up

<img src="https://github.com/PandoraArc/ColDi/blob/main/ColDi_userinterface.png" width="250">

All parameters are same as parameter found in imageJ program. When every parameter is added, you can analyze colony diameter by just clicking "Analyze" button
the result of your input will be save in save location as .csv and .xlsx file. The program also provide every picture along the process

## Example input and result

For example input image and result from ColDI can be found in folder Example. Video reccording for instruction can be found in the youtube link below.

[![YouTube](https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?logo=youtube&label=YouTube&message=click%20here&color=red)](https://youtu.be/fK7d56Ly9q8)
